# MICINSNOW
Bacterial and fungal communities in four calcareous glacier forefields

Brief study description: Calcareous glacier forefields have long remained understudied. Due to their unique soil conditions, they may challenge prevailing ecological frameworks for understanding microbial biodiversity and community assembly during early stages of soil development. Early stages of soil development are notorious for their high-turnover rates and thus their study requires a high degree of replication for drawing conclusions relevant for microbial ecology. However, comparative studies are still missing. Here, we investigated both the bacterial and fungal diversity, association networks, and community assembly processes in four calcareous glacier forefields of the Alps, focusing on the earliest soil developmental stages (<25 years) during snowmelt season. 
We found an active and diverse community of bacteria and fungi, potentially contributing to P and N nutrient cycling. Neutral community models suggest the majority of these microbes to be randomly dispersed. Nevertheless, a core microbiome existing across all four locations indicates that independent of taxonomy, certain microbes are more successful colonizers than others. In dense networks, fungi, although less in count, were more interconnected than bacteria, suggesting that their ecological role may be underestimated in this habitat. Further, networks were dominated by well integrated, selected-for OTUs, which were equally paired with selected-against or neutral OTUs, suggesting an opportunistic behaviour of microbes and, more generally, emphasizing the role of microbial associations in explaining community assembly. There were no common bacterial-fungal associations across the four networks, indicating that this habitat does not select for specific bacterial-fungal associations. 
The high diversity and versatility of microbial communities ensure the stability of alpine communities. Microbes ensure the colonization of the ecosystem even in the face of climatic changes or perturbations, by realizing their capability with whichever member they find themselves with. Ultimately, the composition and interactions of microbes may be inherently unpredictable in such environments due to the strong priority effects and high turnover rates under numerous selective pressures typical of newly-formed glacier forefields.
